# Creating a Plugin

So you want to build an editor plugin! srclib can make your favorite editor more intelligent in a language-agnostic way -- which means that you only need to interface with srclib, and you'll get analysis for every language that srclib supports for free.

## Before You Start

Make sure you have [srclib installed](../install.md), along with the [toolchains you want to use](../toolchains/overview.md#TODOavailable-toolchains). It's also a good idea to be familiar with the [srclib's api](../api/overview.md) and [data model](../api/data-model.md).

**Be aware that many API commands currently rely on an up-to-date build to function correctly**. For example, `src api describe` takes `--start-byte` as one of its arguments, and gives you the information for the identifier that starts at `start-byte`. If you change a file, an identifier's byte offset may be out of sync with the analyzed version of the code. The srclib team is looking into this issue and we'll have a fix for it out soon, but for now, make sure to run `src do-all` before calling an API command to get accurate results.

There are a couple things a srclib-powered plugin can do:

 * [Analyze a Project](#analyze-a-project)
 * [Show Type Information](#show-type-information) 
 * [Jump To Definition](#jump-to-definition)
 * [Show Documentation](#show-documentation)
 * [Get Examples](#get-examples)
 
## Analyze a Project

You can explicitly build a project by running `src do-all` at the top-level directory of a repository. `src do-all` is equivalent to running `src config` and then `src make`. `src do-all` will return `0` for it's error code if it completes correctly.

Analysis happens automatically when you call an API command on `src` if no builds exist for the vcs version (where a version is a commit id or HEAD) that is currently checked out.

## Show Type Information

The [`src api describe`](../api/overview.md#src-api-describe) command will give you an identifier's type information. If you only need the type information, you should pass `--no-examples` to the command.

The type information is part of the "Def.Data" property, and it is currently language-defined. Here is an example generated by the Go toolchain:

### Example

```
{
    "Def":{
        "Data": {
            "PkgName": "main",
            "TypeString": "error",
            "UnderlyingTypeString": "interface{Error() string}",
            "Kind": "var",
            "PackageImportPath": "github.com/samertm/chompy"
        },
    },
}
```

## Jump To Definition

The [`src api describe`](../api/overview.md#src-api-describe) command will give you the location of an identifier's definition. If you only need the definition location, you should pass `--no-examples` to the command.

### Example

The starting byte for an identifier's definition is "Def.DefStart", and the ending byte is "Def.DefEnd".

```
{
    "Def":{
        "DefStart":300,
        "DefEnd":330,
    },
}
```

## Show Documentation

The [`src api describe`](../api/overview.md#src-api-describe) command will give you an identifier's doc string, if it has one. If you only need the doc string, you should pass `--no-examples` to the command.

### Example

The doc information is part of the "Def.Data" property, and it is currently language-defined. Here is an example generated by the Go toolchain:

```
{
    "Def":{
        "Data":{
            "DocHTML":"compile is a function with an awesome doc string.\n",
        },
    },
}
```

## Get Examples

The [`src api describe`](../api/overview.md#src-api-describe) command will give you an identifier's example information, if it has examples. This hits Sourcegraph's API, so it's speed will be affected by moving over the network.

### Example

```
{
    "Examples":[
        {
            "DefRepo":"github.com/golang/go",
            "DefUnitType":"GoPackage",
            "DefUnit":"fmt",
            "DefPath":"Println",
            "Repo":"github.com/golang/go",
            "CommitID":"f58a5cb9e2d03ff1baa37cce63766cdb8cba7221",
            "UnitType":"GoPackage",
            "Unit":"go/printer",
            "File":"src/go/printer/printer.go",
            "Start":3392,
            "End":3399,
            "SrcHTML":"", /* SrcHTML omitted for brevity */
            "StartLine":278,
            "EndLine":286,
            "Error":false
        }
    ]
}
```
